README.md, before:

# CMPM163Labs

# Lab 8:

![](Images/Lab%208%20Unity%20City.png)

For the tutorial step-by-step, I used the following textures in that scene:

https://3dtextures.me/2018/12/17/ground-grass-001/

https://3dtextures.me/2018/11/12/asphalt-006/

![](Images/Lab%208%20Unity%20Grid.png)

![](Images/Lab%208%20Inspiration.png)

My inspiration city is The Grid from Tron: Legacy. I decided to make my city out of buildings and streets that are just glassy black with neon-teal highlights. So I made two materials: One that is just black that is 100% smooth and 0% metal and another that is just an emissions channel tinted teal. I made the black material 0% metal because it helped give it some color that isn't just straight black. I also attached a post-processing volume to each of the buildings to give the building highlights a nice glow, like it is in the movie. I also made the buildings out of Unity primitives to give it the geometric architecture that Tron buildings have.

# Lab 7 Part 1:

Must have UCSC email to view:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1e0Tc7bRturPOc23y5Hb_0boaCfxP9nrQ/view?usp=sharing

I built my scene by using the vertex displacement shader to create the mountains / islands, and then I used the wave shader to create the water. I modified the tutorial's vertex displacement shader by giving it polka dots. I originally was intending to give it a gradient dependent on height by isolating the vertex's y position. However, that didn't work out and instead made polka dots. I think it's realted to the voronoi noise generator, but I'm not sure. I also made a lion drop from the sky.

I also imported various assets from the Unity store:

Fantasy Skybox FREE by G.E. Team

Free Trees by Darth_Artisan

Rocks by VIS Games

Modern Furniture Pieces Pack by Reynard Droste

5 animated Voxel animals by VoxelGuy

Lab partner:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rDYo8ooQ6P-bR-PQulSyCJIy5OQ_yiLM/view

"So basically I altered the wave pattern of the water so that it goes out in a circle from the center, like a raindrop in a puddle, and changed the color to be less dark. I used a JPEG file texture from Animal Crossing for my Island/Mini Mountain Range and just added several .glb models from the folder Montana provided for us."

I thought it was really cool how Daniel made their plane actually look like a small Animal Crossing map with rivers, and also the raindrop animation pattern is cool.

I learned that the height map can be used to create rivers and not just mountains and we also did not help each other.

# Lab 7 Part 2:

Mountain with the height map as the base color:

![](Images/Lab%207%20Part%202A%20Height%20Texture.png)

Mountain with the terrain texture as the base color:

![](Images/Lab%207%20Part%202A%20Terrain%20Texture.png)

Wavy Plane: Must have UCSC email to view:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hyNSUJnAotyQPBZ9vvqIgO1e00MmrOT6/view?usp=sharing

My Creative Island; Must have UCSC email to view:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Hdgvnf8qZfsQNJo4QTL-PO2mzTEiYZZG/view?usp=sharing

I used the height modified and textured mountain from the previous part and the same ocean from the previous part. But then I swapped out the fragment shader with one that tinted the mountain texture hot pink. And then I also put down some palm trees from the Unity asset "Free Trees by Darth_Artisan". I also put down the dog model in the middle of the ocean, kind of like godzilla and bobbed it up and down with a sin function with an input of time. I also tinted the light source red.


# Lab 6 Part 1:

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity.png)

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity%20with%20gizmos.png)

Lights:

Spotlight: A light source that emits light rays from a single point in 3D space, but only in some directions.

Directional Light: A light source that emits light rays in one direction globally, which can be thought of a light source from "far away"

Point Light: A light source that emits light rays in all directions, starting from a single point in 3D space

Area Light: A light source that emits light rays in one direction, but emits from a rectangle or disc in space. This light source also only bakes light onto light maps, so it can only cast light on static objects.

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity%20Lanyard.jpg)

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity%20My%20Material.png)

Material:

I decided to mimic the material of my lanyard. So I found a texture set online that was burlap and applied all of the maps. Then I tinted the albedo map to be greenish-yellow because my lanyard is greenish-yellow. I set the smoothness to .154, because my lanyard isn't shiny, but it does reflect some light, probably because it's made of synthetic fibers? I also decided to push the height map value all of the way because that'd be cool. I also non-uniformly tiled the texture with a ratio of 1:4 because I notice the sewing on my lanyard isn't in squares, but in rectangles.

https://3dtextures.me/2020/01/20/fabric-burlap-003/

Textures:

I then textured the floor to be wood with this texture and then tiled it 10 times.

https://3dtextures.me/2019/09/19/wood-020/

I also added a brick texture from here:

https://3dtextures.me/2019/10/24/brick-wall-016/

For both of the above textures, I used all of the available maps including AO, normal, height, basecolor, and roughness.

Skybox:

I downloaded a sunset skybox texture set from the Unity Asset store "Skybox by Clod" and then created a skybox out of those 6 textures.

# Lab 6 Part 2:

Shadertoy:

![](Images/Lab%206%20Tiled.png)

My shader:
https://www.shadertoy.com/view/tdffWf

Cool shader (Black Hole Ray tracing):
https://www.shadertoy.com/view/3slcWr

# Lab 5:

Unity Mod (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1klPlgttINfIaZlnbr6VuUd_mDQAEUZWu/view?usp=sharing

I made 3 modifications:

I made the track longer by incorporating the extra track and adding an extra turn

I also wrote a script so the particle effects would scale with your speed. If you're sitting still, then no particles will emit. As you pick up speed, the particles' initial speed will increase so it feels like you're going faster.

I also made that script make other particle effects scale their speed and emission rate with how much you are turning, to give feedback that you are turning.

Three.JS lab Part A: Moving the camera around static particles that change color
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1w6nbUmKkWZrhSvigLGUQ1mXUmz5twsMV/view?usp=sharing

Three.JS lab Part B: Custom Explosion of Particles
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L55DHqEaw15VC1WFQrFzTGbObFkjXN3T/view?usp=sharing

I looked up an algorithm to randomly pick a unit vector in 3D space, so that the particles would explode in a spherical shape. I also made the particles change their hue over time.
Algorithm was found here: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/44689/how-to-find-a-random-axis-or-unit-vector-in-3d

Three.JS lab Part C: Sine Wave 

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CMSyK5sj7yI64pq8wEoBqDQxRsN3_k4_/view?usp=sharing

I randomly spread particles across in the X axis, and then I animated their Y positions in a sinusoidal curve, given an input of their X position and time.

# Lab 4:

Five cubes with textures and shaders (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jZkQmNrKY75JqzcMSCIehzMFpMMD14y9/view?usp=sharing

a) x = floor(7 * u)

b) y = floor(7 * ( 1 - v ))

c) (2,5) grey

For the first cube on the left, I mapped just the color map of a texture on the cube.

For the second cube, I mapped both the color map and normal map of the texture from cube 1 onto this cube.

For the third cube, I mapped another combination of a color map and a normal map onto this cube.

For the fourth cube, I mapped the color map via a shader

For the fifth cube, I used the same shader, but passed in a uniform that scaled the texture. Then I truncated the uv coordinates so only the decimal remained and fed that into the texture2D so that I repeat pixels, creating tiling.

# Lab 3:

Five cubes with shaders and materials (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wvrJQJkr3TuCCRzAkfvLVkjGuNTgbbGY/view?usp=sharing

For the first cube on the left, I made a cube with a simple Phong material that has a gray base color and a green specular color.

For the second cube on the left, I made a cube with a Phong material with a pink base color and put a bump map I found at http://www.bundysoft.com/wiki/doku.php?id=tutorials:l3dt:bumpmap

For the cube in the middle, I made a cube that interpolated between orange and yellow using my own shaders

For the second cube on the right, I generated my own textures in Substance Painter and mapped the albedo, emissive, normal, and height maps using a Phong material.

For the first cube on the right, I made a cube with my own shaders that took in the global position of the fragment and mapped that value on a scale of -1 to 1 into 0 to 1, giving it a soft, pastel appearance.

# Lab 2:

Three cubes video (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/15XuIXxUtrTVo39Q95UpNPblpIiSAc07q/view?usp=sharing

Part 2 Preview:
![](Images/Lab%202%20Part%202%20Herman%20Wu.png)

Commit message:

Added partner's descriptions and their image

README.md, after:

# CMPM163Labs

# Lab 8:

![](Images/Lab%208%20Unity%20City.png)

For the tutorial step-by-step, I used the following textures in that scene:

https://3dtextures.me/2018/12/17/ground-grass-001/

https://3dtextures.me/2018/11/12/asphalt-006/

![](Images/Lab%208%20Unity%20Grid.png)

![](Images/Lab%208%20Inspiration.png)

My inspiration city is The Grid from Tron: Legacy. I decided to make my city out of buildings and streets that are just glassy black with neon-teal highlights. So I made two materials: One that is just black that is 100% smooth and 0% metal and another that is just an emissions channel tinted teal. I made the black material 0% metal because it helped give it some color that isn't just straight black. I also attached a post-processing volume to each of the buildings to give the building highlights a nice glow, like it is in the movie. I also made the buildings out of Unity primitives to give it the geometric architecture that Tron buildings have.

# Lab 8 Partner's work:

I followed through with the initial instructions, then played around with different perlin noise pictures and also created a seed so I could save interesting city formations that I liked
I wanted to create an alive feeling to the city scenery, so I played with the animated mats we learned a few weeks ago
Also, I added some stone textures to the buildings and changed their colors based on the height they were, which helped create interesting looks because of the color lights bouncing off them
"What was challening"
probably trying to rescale the textures to make them look decent on the buildings
as the buildings are different in scale, and some texture I used stretched in ways I didn't expect

# Lab 7 Part 1:

Must have UCSC email to view:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1e0Tc7bRturPOc23y5Hb_0boaCfxP9nrQ/view?usp=sharing

I built my scene by using the vertex displacement shader to create the mountains / islands, and then I used the wave shader to create the water. I modified the tutorial's vertex displacement shader by giving it polka dots. I originally was intending to give it a gradient dependent on height by isolating the vertex's y position. However, that didn't work out and instead made polka dots. I think it's realted to the voronoi noise generator, but I'm not sure. I also made a lion drop from the sky.

I also imported various assets from the Unity store:

Fantasy Skybox FREE by G.E. Team

Free Trees by Darth_Artisan

Rocks by VIS Games

Modern Furniture Pieces Pack by Reynard Droste

5 animated Voxel animals by VoxelGuy

Lab partner:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rDYo8ooQ6P-bR-PQulSyCJIy5OQ_yiLM/view

"So basically I altered the wave pattern of the water so that it goes out in a circle from the center, like a raindrop in a puddle, and changed the color to be less dark. I used a JPEG file texture from Animal Crossing for my Island/Mini Mountain Range and just added several .glb models from the folder Montana provided for us."

I thought it was really cool how Daniel made their plane actually look like a small Animal Crossing map with rivers, and also the raindrop animation pattern is cool.

I learned that the height map can be used to create rivers and not just mountains and we also did not help each other.

# Lab 7 Part 2:

Mountain with the height map as the base color:

![](Images/Lab%207%20Part%202A%20Height%20Texture.png)

Mountain with the terrain texture as the base color:

![](Images/Lab%207%20Part%202A%20Terrain%20Texture.png)

Wavy Plane: Must have UCSC email to view:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hyNSUJnAotyQPBZ9vvqIgO1e00MmrOT6/view?usp=sharing

My Creative Island; Must have UCSC email to view:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Hdgvnf8qZfsQNJo4QTL-PO2mzTEiYZZG/view?usp=sharing

I used the height modified and textured mountain from the previous part and the same ocean from the previous part. But then I swapped out the fragment shader with one that tinted the mountain texture hot pink. And then I also put down some palm trees from the Unity asset "Free Trees by Darth_Artisan". I also put down the dog model in the middle of the ocean, kind of like godzilla and bobbed it up and down with a sin function with an input of time. I also tinted the light source red.


# Lab 6 Part 1:

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity.png)

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity%20with%20gizmos.png)

Lights:

Spotlight: A light source that emits light rays from a single point in 3D space, but only in some directions.

Directional Light: A light source that emits light rays in one direction globally, which can be thought of a light source from "far away"

Point Light: A light source that emits light rays in all directions, starting from a single point in 3D space

Area Light: A light source that emits light rays in one direction, but emits from a rectangle or disc in space. This light source also only bakes light onto light maps, so it can only cast light on static objects.

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity%20Lanyard.jpg)

![](Images/Lab6%20Unity%20My%20Material.png)

Material:

I decided to mimic the material of my lanyard. So I found a texture set online that was burlap and applied all of the maps. Then I tinted the albedo map to be greenish-yellow because my lanyard is greenish-yellow. I set the smoothness to .154, because my lanyard isn't shiny, but it does reflect some light, probably because it's made of synthetic fibers? I also decided to push the height map value all of the way because that'd be cool. I also non-uniformly tiled the texture with a ratio of 1:4 because I notice the sewing on my lanyard isn't in squares, but in rectangles.

https://3dtextures.me/2020/01/20/fabric-burlap-003/

Textures:

I then textured the floor to be wood with this texture and then tiled it 10 times.

https://3dtextures.me/2019/09/19/wood-020/

I also added a brick texture from here:

https://3dtextures.me/2019/10/24/brick-wall-016/

For both of the above textures, I used all of the available maps including AO, normal, height, basecolor, and roughness.

Skybox:

I downloaded a sunset skybox texture set from the Unity Asset store "Skybox by Clod" and then created a skybox out of those 6 textures.

# Lab 6 Part 2:

Shadertoy:

![](Images/Lab%206%20Tiled.png)

My shader:
https://www.shadertoy.com/view/tdffWf

Cool shader (Black Hole Ray tracing):
https://www.shadertoy.com/view/3slcWr

# Lab 5:

Unity Mod (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1klPlgttINfIaZlnbr6VuUd_mDQAEUZWu/view?usp=sharing

I made 3 modifications:

I made the track longer by incorporating the extra track and adding an extra turn

I also wrote a script so the particle effects would scale with your speed. If you're sitting still, then no particles will emit. As you pick up speed, the particles' initial speed will increase so it feels like you're going faster.

I also made that script make other particle effects scale their speed and emission rate with how much you are turning, to give feedback that you are turning.

Three.JS lab Part A: Moving the camera around static particles that change color
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1w6nbUmKkWZrhSvigLGUQ1mXUmz5twsMV/view?usp=sharing

Three.JS lab Part B: Custom Explosion of Particles
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L55DHqEaw15VC1WFQrFzTGbObFkjXN3T/view?usp=sharing

I looked up an algorithm to randomly pick a unit vector in 3D space, so that the particles would explode in a spherical shape. I also made the particles change their hue over time.
Algorithm was found here: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/44689/how-to-find-a-random-axis-or-unit-vector-in-3d

Three.JS lab Part C: Sine Wave 

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CMSyK5sj7yI64pq8wEoBqDQxRsN3_k4_/view?usp=sharing

I randomly spread particles across in the X axis, and then I animated their Y positions in a sinusoidal curve, given an input of their X position and time.

# Lab 4:

Five cubes with textures and shaders (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jZkQmNrKY75JqzcMSCIehzMFpMMD14y9/view?usp=sharing

a) x = floor(7 * u)

b) y = floor(7 * ( 1 - v ))

c) (2,5) grey

For the first cube on the left, I mapped just the color map of a texture on the cube.

For the second cube, I mapped both the color map and normal map of the texture from cube 1 onto this cube.

For the third cube, I mapped another combination of a color map and a normal map onto this cube.

For the fourth cube, I mapped the color map via a shader

For the fifth cube, I used the same shader, but passed in a uniform that scaled the texture. Then I truncated the uv coordinates so only the decimal remained and fed that into the texture2D so that I repeat pixels, creating tiling.

# Lab 3:

Five cubes with shaders and materials (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wvrJQJkr3TuCCRzAkfvLVkjGuNTgbbGY/view?usp=sharing

For the first cube on the left, I made a cube with a simple Phong material that has a gray base color and a green specular color.

For the second cube on the left, I made a cube with a Phong material with a pink base color and put a bump map I found at http://www.bundysoft.com/wiki/doku.php?id=tutorials:l3dt:bumpmap

For the cube in the middle, I made a cube that interpolated between orange and yellow using my own shaders

For the second cube on the right, I generated my own textures in Substance Painter and mapped the albedo, emissive, normal, and height maps using a Phong material.

For the first cube on the right, I made a cube with my own shaders that took in the global position of the fragment and mapped that value on a scale of -1 to 1 into 0 to 1, giving it a soft, pastel appearance.

# Lab 2:

Three cubes video (Must have UCSC email to view):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/15XuIXxUtrTVo39Q95UpNPblpIiSAc07q/view?usp=sharing

Part 2 Preview:
![](Images/Lab%202%20Part%202%20Herman%20Wu.png)
